Adding caveat to the false positives (#6207)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/node-selection/state-comparison-caveats.md

### Vars

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.8">

If a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt Core 1.8 and earlier are unable today to identify that lineage in such a way that it can include the model in `state:modified` because the `var` or `env_var` value has changed. It's likely that the model will be marked modified if the change in variable results in a different configuration.
</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

> Beginning in dbt Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` [behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it will include the model in `state:modified` when the `var` or `env_var` value has changed.

Author: ```suggestion
Beginning in dbt Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` [behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it will include the model in `state:modified` when the `var` or `env_var` value has changed. Read more about the ["state" method](/reference/node-selection/methods#the-state-method).
```

> Beginning in dbt Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` [behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it will include the model in `state:modified` when the `var` or `env_var` value has changed. Read more about the ["state" method](/reference/node-selection/methods#the-state-method).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beginning in dbt Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` [behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it will include the model in `state:modified` when the `var` or `env_var` value has changed. 
```
i changed my mind sorry!

### Vars

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.8">

If a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt Core 1.8 and earlier are unable today to identify that lineage in such a way that it can include the model in `state:modified` because the `var` or `env_var` value has changed. It's likely that the model will be marked modified if the change in variable results in a different configuration.
</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

> Beginning in db Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` behavior flag to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it can include the model in `state:modified` because the `var` or `env_var` value has changed.

Author: ```suggestion
Beginning in dbt Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` behavior flag to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it can include the model in `state:modified` because the `var` or `env_var` value has changed.
```

> Beginning in dbt Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` behavior flag to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it can include the model in `state:modified` because the `var` or `env_var` value has changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beginning in dbt Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` behavior flag to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it will include the model in `state:modified` when the `var` or `env_var` value has changed.
```

> Beginning in dbt Core 1.9, when you set the `state_modified_compare_vars` behavior flag to `True` and a model uses a `var` or `env_var` in its definition, dbt will identify that lineage in such a way that it can include the model in `state:modified` because the `var` or `env_var` value has changed.

Reviewer: Do we also want to link to the new [state:modified.vars selection method](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6222)?

Author: Yea not sure what I was thinking 😆 
moved here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6207/commits/ed01932e23cc92dc4f0abf31e8a519c5e972ffa6

Author: Linked. here https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6207/commits/84003bc8c576fdb404d19dbd9924d6fab1ed35d7

> Learn more about [Behavior flags](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags).

Reviewer: should we just add this link to "behavior flag" above instead of having a separate sentence?

Author: Yea not sure what I was thinking 😆 
moved here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6207/commits/ed01932e23cc92dc4f0abf31e8a519c5e972ffa6

### False positives

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

> To reduce false positives during `state:modified` checks due to env-aware logic, you can set the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` [behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) to `True`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reduce false positives during `state:modified` selection due to env-aware logic, you can set the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` [behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) to `True`. 
```

### False positives

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

> To reduces false positives during `state:modified` checks when production and development environments have different configurations, you can set the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` behavior flag to `True`. Learn more about [Behavior flags](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reduce false positives during `state:modified` checks due to env-aware logic, you can set the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` [behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) to `True`. 
```

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.8">
State comparison works by identifying discrepancies between two manifests.  Those discrepancies could be the result of:

1. Changes made to a project in development

> 2. Env-aware logic that causes different behavior based on the `target`, env vars, etc., which can be avoided if you upgrade to dbt Core 1.9 and set the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` behavior flag to `True`. Learn more about [Behavior flags](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Env-aware logic that causes different behavior based on the `target`, env vars, etc., which can be avoided if you upgrade to dbt Core 1.9 and set the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` [behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags) to `True`. 
```

> State comparison detects env-aware config in `dbt_project.yml`. This target-based config registers as a modification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
State comparison detects env-aware config in `dbt_project.yml`. This target-based config won't register as a modification:
```

I think this was wrong previously...

</File>

> Of course, if the raw Jinja expression is modified, it will be marked as a modification unless you set the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` behavior flag to `True`. Learn more about [Behavior flags](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags).

Author: @graciegoheen or @jtcohen6 Does this need to be versioned? It's unclear in [the Core PR](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/pull/10487/files) whether this was backported or not?

Reviewer: I do not believe this was backported - let's version this as 1.9+

Reviewer: I don't think this is quite the right spot for the callout. 
<img width="886" alt="Screenshot 2024-10-01 at 10 52 52 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/83829421-a82b-4a94-ab60-e1b294eb396c">

maybe we add it to the second bullet? "Env-aware logic that causes different behavior based on the target, env vars, etc." and then have separate docs in this section for 1.9?

Author: Applied this change in [this commit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6207/commits/b3c93a148ec2b3124696e04ae0dfc7b8edd4a825)!

> Of course, if the raw Jinja expression is modified, it will be marked as a modification unless you use the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` behavior flag to `True`. Read more about this flag in [Behavior changes](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags)

Author: ```suggestion
Of course, if the raw Jinja expression is modified, it will be marked as a modification unless you set the `state_modified_compare_more_unrendered` behavior flag to `True`. Learn more about [Behavior flags](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#behavior-change-flags).
```
